---
layout: post
title: "Sapporo II"
date: 2025-02-10 19:49:00 +0900
categories: travel
---

When I'm travelling, I find it hard to leave my hotel in the morning, even when it's not 0°C and snowing outside like it is here in Sapporo right now. For me, taking the first step outside the hotel for the day is like being a diver jumping off the 10 m platform at the Olympics. If you don't do it, you might be disqualified, but in some ways that's better than potentially fucking up your handstand forward somersault pike and belly-flopping into a score of 1.3 from the judges. Except there are no judges and it's not really better in any way at all. But even though I know rationally it's not actually better, it usually takes until 11 am (at the earliest) until I can shame myself into actually getting on with my day. Even if the day before was perfectly nice, and there's no reason why today wouldn't be either.

My anxiousness often makes a toxic cocktail with another personality deficit: my lack of spontaneity. On an ideal trip I will have planned at least two events for every day and where I will go for lunch and dinner. There will be backup options in case anything falls through. I will wake up early enough to go to the hotel restaurant and eat the breakfast I have paid for in advance. If I'm able to prepare things ahead of time like this, my anxiety is much less pronounced and I can head to my first destination of the day with a clear head and a full stomach.

On Friday I actually had two things I wanted to do (though nothing in mind for food). I wanted to buy some new gym shoes and I wanted to go to a proper gay bar. I had a location in mind for the latter, but for the shoes I was torn between heading an hour out of town to the outlet park where I thought there would be a big selection and just hoping to get lucky at the smaller boutiques in the centre of town. (I couldn't find any way to check what was in stock online.) I spent way too long deliberating in the hotel cafe after breakfast, and eventually made up my mind to go to the outlet park.

It was a bit windy outside and I instantly realised I needed a scarf. My new sweater had a slightly upturned collar which I had thought would protect me about as well as the turtleneck I'd been wearing the day before. That turned out to be a huge miscalculation: my neck radiated all my body heat out into the cold Sapporo day in no time at all, and by the time I got to the subway station near my hotel I was shivering.

On my way to the outlet I identified a scarf on sale at the MHL store where I'd bought the rest of my ensemble, but when I arrived I found quite unexpectedly that MHL also had a presence there. In fact, MHL is itself a child brand of Margaret Howell, a proper designer label, and as far as I could see only scarves from the latter were stocked. Those started from $120 and climbed to $275 – and that's with discounts of 40% to 50% applied. They were quite nice and so again was the staff member helping me, but I thought I'd stick with the cheaper one at MHL in the city.

As it turned out, the selection of gym shoes at the stores in the outlet wasn't as wide as I'd hoped. I had to settle for a pair of decent-enough Nikes in a colour I wouldn't ordinarily choose, the saving grace being that they were also 50% off. Shopping done, I had a tasty pork don at the food court, and followed that up with some soft serve, since I'd heard the local dairy products were of some renown. It was indeed very good, with a rich cream taste and a natural sweetness.

I almost fell asleep in the warm bus back to the city but quickly sharpened up after alighting into the cold. The shop assistant from yesterday was there at MHL again, but his colleague served me. When I put the grey scarf around my neck it looked like a broad, flat noose, but with a few skillful movements she styled it into an elegant, rippling wreath.

I went to my hotel room to drop off the Nikes and, after wasting some time trying to figure out how to tie the scarf as artfully as the shop assistant had, made my way to the gay bar. It's a so-called 'snack' bar, where (despite what the name suggests) the hospitality of the bartender/s is the main drawcard, and you sit, drink and talk with them and the other patrons. I don't really like dancing or singing karaoke unless I'm several drinks in, so it's the best kind of bar for me, and I wish there were such bars back in Sydney. E and I went to Cantina OK! before I left, which isn't a world away – small, and the three staff were very sociable, but not gay (not that most snack bars are) and not that intimate owing to the fact that it spills slightly onto the dank alley off Clarence St on which it's situated. In my limited experience, snack bars for gay clientele in Japan are invariably clustered together as little rooms in nondescript mid-rise buildings, each with an opaque door which serves both to protect the privacy of those behind it and ensure that only the sneakiest potential customers can peek inside without being noticed and met with a welcoming yet semi-obligating cry of *irasshaimase*.

Even though this bar, named Condor, is well-reviewed on Google Maps for its friendliness to foreigners and general good vibe, it still took me 30 seconds to muster up the courage to push open its door and step in. But I'm very happy I did.

This post is getting a bit long, and I really feel like the many visits I ended up making to Condor deserve a separate treatment, so I'll wind things up here. I'm surprised at my apparent ability to spend so many words talking about so little. It's not one I had back in high school, when it would've really come in handy. In the past year or two I've wanted to pursue a style of life writing that blends the inane with the entertaining, and is prolix enough to wear down the reader without driving them away, so that the overall effect is the creation of a relationship not unlike that of a priest (you) to a favoured if slightly over-enthusiastic parishioner (me), where my own personal boundaries are partially dissolved and I can tell the truth unselfconsciously, without worrying as much about how it will be received as I always have. I'm glad I'm finally getting to give it a go.

Forthcoming, then, in some order: Condor, a Tinder date, and my thoughts about Sapporo itself, or else why I'm finding it hard to share them.