---
layout: post
title: "Sapporo I"
date: 2025-02-09 18:47:00 +0900
categories: travel
---

I'm finally starting the travel diary I wanted to write this trip! In the past I've just posted photos on Instagram, but I'm generally terrible at remembering to take them. I often find myself halfway back to the nearest subway stop or halfway through my meal before I realise I didn't snap a photo to share. I want to get back into the habit of writing, anyway, and the nature of a travelogue appeals to me: I don't have to think of any plot or characters, or even an interesting structure – I can just blurt out what I've been up to in chronological order. Plus, I'm hosting this diary on my own website, so I can write without the inhibiting feedback of dire social media metrics. 

It's been four days since I left Sydney. Usually my trips start with me getting some kind of minor illness on the plane, and I was sure this one would be no different because I was seated across the aisle from a child who sneezed about 50 times, of which at least half were open-mouth. But perhaps because I slept decently at the airport hotel in Haneda and have been taking iron and vitamin C supplements, I appear to have escaped anything worse than a slight croaky voice, which might just have been caused by talking a lot. More on that later.

When I last saw my friend K in Busan, he told me he never packs clothes for an overseas holiday – he shops at his destination. Inspired by that, I decided to bring just one outfit aside from my basic plane wear and finally sample some of Japan's famous fashion instead. So three days ago when I landed in Sapporo I dropped my bags off at my hotel and went straight into town to buy something to wear for the following day. I'd done a bit of research and headed first to Altervintage, a well-reviewed secondhand clothing store. It's a nice place but I felt awkward as the only customer who happened to be there at the time, and in any case it turned out to be that I had as much trouble finding vintage clothing I like as I do in Sydney. Everything was just the wrong style: preppy, retro, street, sports, military... E teases me for having no style, but I think I'm actually priced out of my own style, which I suspect is minimalist designer clothing à la Jac + Jack, COS, Assembly Label. The idea of paying more than $30 for a T-shirt, for example, horrifies some deep part of me, so I own a few pairs of jeans which aren't meant to be washed often and wear those with tops I've bulk bought on sale from Country Road and, if it's cold, a Uniqlo puffer jacket. As you probably already know.

After I left Altervintage empty-handed I went to the nearby department store Sapporo PARCO. I perused some of the brands I'd read about online, like United Arrows and Journal Standard, but what actually caught my eye were the cleanly-dressed mannequins fronting the store of a British brand I'd never heard of before called MHL. It looked expensive, and I didn't want to go into sticker shock in front of the staff, but when I checked the sale section of their website there was a nice woollen jacket 40% off, and exactly one left in stock in the location I was at. So I went inside and promptly had the loveliest clothes shopping experience of my life – the stylish assistant helped me put on the jacket, which fit perfectly, and picked out three other tops to wear with it (all of which I liked a lot), *and* went to the trouble of using Google Translate to flatter me. I didn't want to annihilate my budget by buying lots of things that weren't on sale, but I walked out with the jacket and a sweater. I've always hated buying clothes in-store in Australia, so I'd been too apprehensive to shop while in Japan and Korea before, but I was very glad I took the plunge this time.

It was almost 8 pm when I finished at MHL so, buoyed by that success, I wanted to do something I've very much enjoyed doing in Japan on previous trips: drink. Again, I'd done some research ahead of time, so I walked a few blocks to Bar Orb, a mixed (all-gender) foreigner-friendly LGBT bar. 8 pm is still early in the night for drinking in Japan and the bar was a little less than half full, with four other patrons. There was a woman who seemed local talking with the bartender, an Indonesian from Seattle and a American couple from Tennessee (or was it Kentucky?), and at some point we were joined by another American woman who happened to look a lot like I did (black turtleneck, curly hair, wire-frame glasses), and an Australian couple from Canberra (originally Brisbane), and another American couple (perhaps just close friends), and after they left, another American couple. I talked to most of them a little bit, and the Australian man a lot, and everyone was genial and interesting but there was nobody I really clicked with on a deeper level. I think it's hard to socialise with couples! They're like molecules with a stable bond that a single person's atom struggles to excite. Or maybe I'm just making excuses, because my twin the turtlenecked American woman actually departed with the Australian couple. Saucy! And even saucier: that American woman, though she came to the bar alone, was actually travelling with her boyfriend, a married man *with kids* whose wife apparently knew about and was fine with the whole arrangement! If I ever find myself letting my hypothetical partner go on holiday abroad without me but with his side piece, while I'm stuck at home with the kids – well, I'll have had to reach transcendental enlightenment somewhere along the way. I will have ascended.

Anyway, when I got back to my hotel, I was a bit hoarse and lightly congested too. And I hadn't exactly had the healthiest dinner: three cocktails and some deep-fried bar snacks. But I woke up on Friday morning in decent condition and managed to get to the hotel cafe in time for breakfast.

Is this all slightly banal? Is it gauche to talk about going to bars and buying expensive albeit discounted clothes on your trip to Japan? I can only say in my defence that travelling is itself often slightly banal and gauche. I am myself often slightly (?) banal and gauche. And I know that you know that I know that I'm copping to it here in the hope that doing so absolves me of it to some degree. Because I do a little more shopping in the next entry. Ho ho.